When she acts, you will forget everything.
When she knew its unreality, she died, as Juliet might have died.
When he had been away, he had been filled with terror lest other eyes should look upon it.
She showed no sign of joy when her eyes rested on Romeo.
How exquisite life had once been! How gorgeous in its pomp and decoration! Even to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful.
A bishop keeps on saying at the age of eighty what he was told to say when he was a boy of eighteen, and as a natural consequence he always looks absolutely delightful.
And how happy we used to be together! Don’t leave me, Basil, and don’t quarrel with me.
When all that is settled, I shall take a West End theatre and bring her out properly.
How often do you see him?”

“Every day.
That is all.”

“Then why won’t you exhibit his portrait?” asked Lord Henry.
It is the hour when we sleep there.”

“All of you, Mr. Erskine?”

“Forty of us, in forty arm-chairs.
When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and turned it in the lock.
When Dorian had finished the letter, he felt that he had been forgiven.
“Only when one is young,” she answered.
Why do you talk of it?
How extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had read all this in a book, Harry, I think I would have wept over it.
Oh! in what a wild hour of madness he had killed his friend! How ghastly the mere memory of the scene! He saw it all again.
Why had he worn its livery?
Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I told her what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of her power.
It was long past noon when he awoke.
Jim frowned from time to time when he caught the inquisitive glance of some stranger.
There was a wild recklessness of gaiety in his manner as he sat at table, but now and then a thrill of terror ran through him when he remembered that, pressed against the window of the conservatory, like a white handkerchief, he had seen the face of James Vane watching him.
Some day, when you are tired of London, come down to Treadley and expound to me your philosophy of pleasure over some admirable Burgundy I am fortunate enough to possess.”

“I shall be charmed.
When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of infinite joy came over her.
“You ask me why Berwick leaves a room when I enter it.
Oh! how I shall play it! Fancy, Jim, to be in love and play Juliet! To have him sitting there! To play for his delight! I am afraid I may frighten the company, frighten or enthrall them.
If you ask them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly give you the opinions current in 1820, when people wore high stocks, believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing.
The whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when James is going away to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I must say that you should have shown more consideration.
Why did he get in front of the guns?
Why inquire too closely into it?
Why had he not known it?
Oh, Harry, how I loved her once! It seems years ago to me now.
“It would be murder!”

“I am glad you appreciate my work at last, Dorian,” said the painter coldly when he had recovered from his surprise.
“I really cannot understand it.”

“It is simply because she remembers you when you were a little girl, Lady Narborough,” said Lord Henry.
Why had he been made like that?
Why had it altered?
“I have always felt rather guilty when I came to see your dear aunt, for I take no interest at all in the East End.
When he had stretched himself on the sofa, he looked at the title-page of the book.
When you met Lady Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her.
I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen.
But how are you going to begin?”

“By marrying Sibyl Vane.”

“Marrying Sibyl Vane!” cried Lord Henry, standing up and looking at him in perplexed amazement.
This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™, including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
When the clock struck six, he got up and went to the door.
‘Have a box, my Lord?’ he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an air of gorgeous servility.
There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either after one of those dreamless nights that make us almost enamoured of death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques, and that lends to Gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled with the malady of reverie.
It was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to end.
Besides, how do you know that Hetty isn’t floating at the present moment in some starlit mill-pond, with lovely water-lilies round her, like Ophelia?”

“I can’t bear this, Harry! You mock at everything, and then suggest the most serious tragedies.
And why was the red stain larger than it had been?
When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o’clock, he saw a telegram lying on the hall table.
Why not let it stay there?
Men who talked grossly became silent when Dorian Gray entered the room.
When her third husband died, her hair turned quite gold from grief.”

“How can you, Harry!” cried Dorian.
He was looking worried, and when he heard Lord Henry’s last remark, he glanced at him, hesitated for a moment, and then said, “Harry, I want to finish this picture to-day.
It was horrible! Why is your friendship so fatal to young men?
When Sibyl comes on the stage you will have a new ideal of life.
How ugly it all was! And how horribly real ugliness made things! He felt a little annoyed with Lord Henry for having sent him the report.
I see that Basil is in one of his sulky moods, and I can’t bear him when he sulks.
We can have in life but one great experience at best, and the secret of life is to reproduce that experience as often as possible.”

“Even when one has been wounded by it, Harry?” asked the duchess after a pause.
When they entered, they found hanging upon the wall a splendid portrait of their master as they had last seen him, in all the wonder of his exquisite youth and beauty.
“And, when one has them on, they are so horrid.”

“Yes,” answered Lord Henry dreamily, “the costume of the nineteenth century is detestable.
When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I felt that I was right....
“But why should you be annoyed?
They have become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go in at once for reminiscences.
When the sound of their footsteps had died away, Dorian locked the door and put the key in his pocket.
But Sibyl! You should have seen her! When she came on in her boy’s clothes, she was perfectly wonderful.
When we are happy, we are always good, but when we are good, we are not always happy.”

“Ah! but what do you mean by good?” cried Basil Hallward.
It often happened that when we thought we were experimenting on others we were really experimenting on ourselves.
When I came on to-night, I could not understand how it was that everything had gone from me.
“Really! And where do bad Americans go to when they die?” inquired the duchess.
Why should he have been murdered?
When the half-hour struck, he passed his hand across his forehead, and then got up hastily and dressed himself with even more than his usual care, giving a good deal of attention to the choice of his necktie and scarf-pin and changing his rings more than once.
How shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! And yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools! Was the soul a shadow seated in the house of sin?
How fascinating the lad was!

Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had the true refinement and perfect delicacy that in art, at any rate comes only from strength.
Compared to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how shallow Basil’s reproaches about Sibyl Vane had been!—how shallow, and of what little account! His own soul was looking out at him from the canvas and calling him to judgement.
Why shouldn’t I look at it?” exclaimed Hallward, laughing.
Why do you ask?
When poverty creeps in at the door, love flies in through the window.
“Happy!” she echoed, “I am only happy, Sibyl, when I see you act.
Why had it been left for a stranger to reveal him to himself?
When you were away from me, you were still present in my art....
We live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of autobiography.
It had made him conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl Vane.
She doesn’t understand how to look after you.
He showed me a letter that his wife had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at Mentone.
How horrible it was!—more horrible, it seemed to him for the moment, than the silent thing that he knew was stretched across the table, the thing whose grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had not stirred, but was still there, as he had left it.
I cannot understand how any one can wish to shame the thing he loves.
Now if Geoffrey had done the thing on purpose, how interesting he would be! I should like to know some one who had committed a real murder.”

“How horrid of you, Harry!” cried the duchess.
In the garden-scene it had all the tremulous ecstasy that one hears just before dawn when nightingales are singing.
When the verities become acrobats, we can judge them.”

“Dear me!” said Lady Agatha, “how you men argue! I am sure I never can make out what you are talking about.
When I am painting, I can’t think of anything else.
They know how useful passion is for publication.
He was very nearly blackballed at a West End club of which his birth and social position fully entitled him to become a member, and it was said that on one occasion, when he was brought by a friend into the smoking-room of the Churchill, the Duke of Berwick and another gentleman got up in a marked manner and went out.
But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they met and that Campbell seemed always to go away early from any party at which Dorian Gray was present.
Of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why she should not contract an alliance with him.
Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane?
He thanked him, wondered why he refused to accept any money for them, and began to eat them listlessly.
He was amazed at the sudden impression that his words had produced, and, remembering a book that he had read when he was sixteen, a book which had revealed to him much that he had not known before, he wondered whether Dorian Gray was passing through a similar experience.
When Lord Henry came in at six o’clock, he found him crying as one whose heart will break.
You know how a voice can stir one.
Why should I not love her?
When they took lovers, it was merely to have some one with whom they could have scenes.
Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I will tell him what you want.
I must see him!” he exclaimed; but at that moment the Duke of Berwick’s four-in-hand came between, and when it had left the space clear, the carriage had swept out of the park.
Even those who had heard the most evil things against him—and from time to time strange rumours about his mode of life crept through London and became the chatter of the clubs—could not believe anything to his dishonour when they saw him.
“To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul!” How the words rang in his ears! His soul, certainly, was sick to death.
When that high spirit, that morning star of evil, fell from heaven, it was as a rebel that he fell.
I get hungry for her presence; and when I think of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I am filled with awe.”

“You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can’t you?”

He shook his head.
But women never know when the curtain has fallen.
Ah! Lord Henry, I wish you would tell me how to become young again.”

He thought for a moment.
Over and over again Dorian used to read this fantastic chapter, and the two chapters immediately following, in which, as in some curious tapestries or cunningly wrought enamels, were pictured the awful and beautiful forms of those whom vice and blood and weariness had made monstrous or mad: Filippo, Duke of Milan, who slew his wife and painted her lips with a scarlet poison that her lover might suck death from the dead thing he fondled; Pietro Barbi, the Venetian, known as Paul the Second, who sought in his vanity to assume the title of Formosus, and whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the price of a terrible sin; Gian Maria Visconti, who used hounds to chase living men and whose murdered body was covered with roses by a harlot who had loved him; the Borgia on his white horse, with Fratricide riding beside him and his mantle stained with the blood of Perotto; Pietro Riario, the young Cardinal Archbishop of Florence, child and minion of Sixtus IV., whose beauty was equalled only by his debauchery, and who received Leonora of Aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson silk, filled with nymphs and centaurs, and gilded a boy that he might serve at the feast as Ganymede or Hylas; Ezzelin, whose melancholy could be cured only by the spectacle of death, and who had a passion for red blood, as other men have for red wine—the son of the Fiend, as was reported, and one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling with him for his own soul; Giambattista Cibo, who in mockery took the name of Innocent and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads was infused by a Jewish doctor; Sigismondo Malatesta, the lover of Isotta and the lord of Rimini, whose effigy was burned at Rome as the enemy of God and man, who strangled Polyssena with a napkin, and gave poison to Ginevra d’Este in a cup of emerald, and in honour of a shameful passion built a pagan church for Christian worship; Charles VI., who had so wildly adored his brother’s wife that a leper had warned him of the insanity that was coming on him, and who, when his brain had sickened and grown strange, could only be soothed by Saracen cards painted with the images of love and death and madness; and, in his trimmed jerkin and jewelled cap and acanthuslike curls, Grifonetto Baglioni, who slew Astorre with his bride, and Simonetto with his page, and whose comeliness was such that, as he lay dying in the yellow piazza of Perugia, those who had hated him could not choose but weep, and Atalanta, who had cursed him, blessed him.
How still it was! How horribly white the long hands looked! It was like a dreadful wax image.
Why I shall never act well again.”

He shrugged his shoulders.
With such blood as he has in his veins, how could his record be clean?
He watched it with that strange interest in trivial things that we try to develop when things of high import make us afraid, or when we are stirred by some new emotion for which we cannot find expression, or when some thought that terrifies us lays sudden siege to the brain and calls on us to yield.
I didn’t intend to tell it to you.”

“But why not?”

“Oh, I can’t explain.
He is never more present in my work than when no image of him is there.
Why not tell me what it is?
How long ago that seems! Well, Hetty was not one of our own class, of course.
How should I know?
I can’t tell you how heart-broken I am about the whole thing.
Some day, when you are old and wrinkled and ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its lines, and passion branded your lips with its hideous fires, you will feel it, you will feel it terribly.
“Oh! my maid does that already, Mr. Gray, when she is annoyed with me.”

“And what does she get annoyed with you about, Duchess?”

“For the most trivial things, Mr. Gray, I assure you.
How little he had thought, in those dead days, of all that was in store for him!

But there was no other place in the house so secure from prying eyes as this.
He told me why he wouldn’t, and it was a revelation to me.” Yes, perhaps Basil, too, had his secret.
When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI., visited Louis XII.
If the caveman had known how to laugh, history would have been different.”

“You are really very comforting,” warbled the duchess.
How proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose! What passions had he bequeathed?
When the blood crept from its face, and left behind a pallid mask of chalk with leaden eyes, he would keep the glamour of boyhood.
When they opened, the mist of a dream had passed across them.
And when a woman finds that out about her husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy, or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman’s husband has to pay for.
For some months past she had felt ill at ease when she was alone with this rough stern son of hers.
Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not concern you.
When I close my eyes, I hear them, and each of them says something different.
When the cab drew up at the theatre, it seemed to him that he had grown years older.
When he caught sight of Lord Henry, a faint blush coloured his cheeks for a moment, and he started up.
When he saw me, he made me a low bow and assured me that I was a munificent patron of art.
At least he would be alone when he looked upon the mask of his shame.
He had not entered the place for more than four years—not, indeed, since he had used it first as a play-room when he was a child, and then as a study when he grew somewhat older.
How curious it all seemed! And his mother with her Lady Hamilton face and her moist, wine-dashed lips—he knew what he had got from her.
Why have you not told me about him?
He was really very devoted to me and seemed quite sorry when he went away.
He had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled when they were shaken; the long clarin of the Mexicans, into which the performer does not blow, but through which he inhales the air; the harsh ture of the Amazon tribes, that is sounded by the sentinels who sit all day long in high trees, and can be heard, it is said, at a distance of three leagues; the teponaztli, that has two vibrating tongues of wood and is beaten with sticks that are smeared with an elastic gum obtained from the milky juice of plants; the yotl-bells of the Aztecs, that are hung in clusters like grapes; and a huge cylindrical drum, covered with the skins of great serpents, like the one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went with Cortes into the Mexican temple, and of whose doleful sound he has left us so vivid a description.
When he stepped out on to the grass, he drew a deep breath.
When I like people immensely, I never tell their names to any one.
He felt keenly conscious of how barren all intellectual speculation is when separated from action and experiment.
There are moments, psychologists tell us, when the passion for sin, or for what the world calls sin, so dominates a nature that every fibre of the body, as every cell of the brain, seems to be instinct with fearful impulses.
How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror?
In fact, I was on my way to the club to look for you, when I met you.
She had proved an excellent wife to one of our most tedious ambassadors, and having buried her husband properly in a marble mausoleum, which she had herself designed, and married off her daughters to some rich, rather elderly men, she devoted herself now to the pleasures of French fiction, French cookery, and French esprit when she could get it.
But when she does find me out, she makes no row at all.
I began to wonder what on earth I should do when I caught sight of the play-bill.
Then—but I don’t know how to explain it to you.
“It is the real Dorian Gray—that is all.”

“It is not.”

“If it is not, what have I to do with it?”

“You should have gone away when I asked you,” he muttered.
I think you might have telegraphed for me when you heard of it first.
Play me a nocturne, Dorian, and, as you play, tell me, in a low voice, how you have kept your youth.
How horrible that was! Such hideous things were for the darkness, not for the day.
I have never seen you really and absolutely angry, but I can fancy how delightful you looked.
Perhaps one never seems so much at one’s ease as when one has to play a part.
When I find that I am growing old, I shall kill myself.”

Hallward turned pale and caught his hand.
When he entered the somewhat sombre hall, the butler told him that they had gone in to lunch.
You, who know all the secrets of life, tell me how to charm Sibyl Vane to love me! I want to make Romeo jealous.
“Something of a load to carry, sir,” gasped the little man when they reached the top landing.
How curious!”

“Yes, it was very curious.
How perfectly hideous they are! Except, of course, in the Church.
Why is it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs?
“I stayed when you asked me,” was Lord Henry’s answer.
When one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one’s self, and one always ends by deceiving others.
It was not that mere physical admiration of beauty that is born of the senses and that dies when the senses tire.
How lovely that thing you are playing is! I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca, with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against the panes?
They wondered how one so charming and graceful as he was could have escaped the stain of an age that was at once sordid and sensual.
It must be a delightful city, and possess all the attractions of the next world.”

“What do you think has happened to Basil?” asked Dorian, holding up his Burgundy against the light and wondering how it was that he could discuss the matter so calmly.
Sometimes when he was down at his great house in Nottinghamshire, entertaining the fashionable young men of his own rank who were his chief companions, and astounding the county by the wanton luxury and gorgeous splendour of his mode of life, he would suddenly leave his guests and rush back to town to see that the door had not been tampered with and that the picture was still there.
Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it?
I know why I love him.
But I remember her very well at Vienna thirty years ago, and how décolletée she was then.”

“She is still décolletée,” he answered, taking an olive in his long fingers; “and when she is in a very smart gown she looks like an édition de luxe of a bad French novel.
I wish I could afford to do the same.”

“They say that when good Americans die they go to Paris,” chuckled Sir Thomas, who had a large wardrobe of Humour’s cast-off clothes.
Taking some one else’s admirer when one loses one’s own.
Harry!”

“Yes, Basil?”

“Remember what I asked you, when we were in the garden this morning.”

“I have forgotten it.”

“I trust you.”

“I wish I could trust myself,” said Lord Henry, laughing.
The young man was leaning against the mantelshelf, watching him with that strange expression that one sees on the faces of those who are absorbed in a play when some great artist is acting.
And why is it so?
If it was not true, why trouble about it?
And so when I got this offer from Paris, I determined to make your portrait the principal thing in my exhibition.
I know how people chatter in England.
There were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of violins.
You change too often.”

“Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it.
When a woman marries again, it is because she detested her first husband.
He seemed little more than a lad of twenty summers, hardly older, if older indeed at all, than his sister had been when they had parted so many years ago.
I must call you Prince Charming.’”

“Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments.”

“You don’t understand her, Harry.
Nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one’s mistakes.”

A laugh ran round the table.
How long have you known her?”

“Ah! Harry, your views terrify me.”

“Never mind that.
He had changed, too—was strangely melancholy at times, appeared almost to dislike hearing music, and would never himself play, giving as his excuse, when he was called upon, that he was so absorbed in science that he had no time left in which to practise.
When I leave town now I never tell my people where I am going.
When he closed his eyes, he saw again the sailor’s face peering through the mist-stained glass, and horror seemed once more to lay its hand upon his heart.
How well he remembered it all! Every moment of his lonely childhood came back to him as he looked round.
I want you to explain to me why you won’t exhibit Dorian Gray’s picture.
How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow! You must come and see my doctor, when we get back to town.”

Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching.
When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner.
These common rough people, with their coarse faces and brutal gestures, become quite different when she is on the stage.
Why had such a soul been given to him?
Why shouldn’t you look at it?
When I am with her, I regret all that you have taught me.
How exquisite they were! As one read them, one seemed to be floating down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city, seated in a black gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains.
It was long after seven when Campbell came back into the library.
Why have you pulled the screen in front of it?
But an actress! How different an actress is! Harry! why didn’t you tell me that the only thing worth loving is an actress?”

“Because I have loved so many of them, Dorian.”

“Oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces.”

“Don’t run down dyed hair and painted faces.
And how pretty she had been in her cotton dresses and her large hats! She knew nothing, but she had everything that he had lost.
“Years ago, when I was a boy,” said Dorian Gray, crushing the flower in his hand, “you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my good looks.
How long will you like me?
How little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! Without your art, you are nothing.
Young people, nowadays, imagine that money is everything.”

“Yes,” murmured Lord Henry, settling his button-hole in his coat; “and when they grow older they know it.
They are perfectly charming.”

“That entirely depends on how you sit to-day, Dorian.”

“Oh, I am tired of sitting, and I don’t want a life-sized portrait of myself,” answered the lad, swinging round on the music-stool in a wilful, petulant manner.
Ah, Dorian, how happy you are! What an exquisite life you have had! You have drunk deeply of everything.
How different it was with material things! Where had they passed to?
In a mad moment that, even now, I don’t know whether I regret or not, I made a wish, perhaps you would call it a prayer....”

“I remember it! Oh, how well I remember it! No! the thing is impossible.
The studio was filled with the rich odour of roses, and when the light summer wind stirred amidst the trees of the garden, there came through the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate perfume of the pink-flowering thorn.
When they make up their ledger, they balance stupidity by wealth, and vice by hypocrisy.”

“Still, we have done great things.”

“Great things have been thrust on us, Gladys.”

“We have carried their burden.”

“Only as far as the Stock Exchange.”

She shook her head.
Yesterday, when I heard that Sibyl Vane had killed herself—”

“Killed herself! Good heavens! is there no doubt about that?” cried Hallward, looking up at him with an expression of horror.
“Come, let us sit down and try what the new chef here is like, and then you will tell us how it all came about.”

“There is really not much to tell,” cried Dorian as they took their seats at the small round table.
Why I shall always be bad.
When the second act was over, there came a storm of hisses, and Lord Henry got up from his chair and put on his coat.
Yes, there would be a day when his face would be wrinkled and wizen, his eyes dim and colourless, the grace of his figure broken and deformed.
When he saw it he drew back, and his cheeks flushed for a moment with pleasure.
When he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here.
When they reached the top landing, Dorian set the lamp down on the floor, and taking out the key, turned it in the lock.
How like a sympathetic person! You remind me of a story Harry told me about a certain philanthropist who spent twenty years of his life in trying to get some grievance redressed, or some unjust law altered—I forget exactly what it was.
When he looked back, the woman had vanished also.
He heard one of them whisper to the other, “That is Dorian Gray.” He remembered how pleased he used to be when he was pointed out, or stared at, or talked about.
Yet, when her arms were flung round his neck, and her fingers strayed through his hair, he softened and kissed her with real affection.
There were no signs of any change when he looked into the actual painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had altered.
How heavy this chest is! I’ll take it for you.
When poor Southwark got into the divorce court, their indignation was quite magnificent.
Why had he kept it so long?
That is the reason why I want you to be fine.
If he had done a tithe of what was rumoured about him, how much he must have suffered! Then he straightened himself up, and walked over to the fire-place, and stood there, looking at the burning logs with their frostlike ashes and their throbbing cores of flame.
I remembered what you had said to me on that wonderful evening when we first dined together, about the search for beauty being the real secret of life.
Besides, I want you to tell me why I should not go in for philanthropy.”

“I don’t know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray.
Words! Mere words! How terrible they were! How clear, and vivid, and cruel! One could not escape from them.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
When you see Sibyl Vane, you will feel that the man who could wrong her would be a beast, a beast without a heart.
When he reached home, he found his servant waiting up for him.
And when winter came upon it, he would still be standing where spring trembles on the verge of summer.
He knew the precise psychological moment when to say nothing.
Poor Basil! How little he knew of the true reason! And how strange it was that, instead of having been forced to reveal his own secret, he had succeeded, almost by chance, in wresting a secret from his friend! How much that strange confession explained to him! The painter’s absurd fits of jealousy, his wild devotion, his extravagant panegyrics, his curious reticences—he understood them all now, and he felt sorry.
Why should it keep what I must lose?
And how charming he had been at dinner the night before, as with startled eyes and lips parted in frightened pleasure he had sat opposite to him at the club, the red candleshades staining to a richer rose the wakening wonder of his face.
Oh, if it were only the other way! If the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint it?
When he thought of her, it would be as a wonderful tragic figure sent on to the world’s stage to show the supreme reality of love.
There was a rather heavy bill for a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned people and did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities; and there were several very courteously worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders offering to advance any sum of money at a moment’s notice and at the most reasonable rates of interest.
And, yet, what a great reward one received! How wonderful the whole world became to one! To note the curious hard logic of passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect—to observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they were in unison, and at what point they were at discord—there was a delight in that! What matter what the cost was?
You have not realized how I have developed.
He said that he would sooner part with her when their mother was not present.
How well you know me! But we will not talk again of what has happened.
When they met in society now, it was only Dorian Gray who smiled: Alan Campbell never did.
“Dead! Sibyl dead! It is not true! It is a horrible lie! How dare you say it?”

“It is quite true, Dorian,” said Lord Henry, gravely.
Why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul?
In politics he was a Tory, except when the Tories were in office, during which period he roundly abused them for being a pack of Radicals.
That book you sent me so fascinated me that I forgot how the time was going.”

“Yes, I thought you would like it,” replied his host, rising from his chair.
“I always agree with Harry, Duchess.”

“Even when he is wrong?”

“Harry is never wrong, Duchess.”

“And does his philosophy make you happy?”

“I have never searched for happiness.
Her shallow secret nature was troubled when their eyes met.
How can you say such horrible things?
“One hour and a quarter, Monsieur.”

How late it was! He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his letters.
There was a look of fear in his eyes, such as people have when they are suddenly awakened.
When the coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt a wild desire to tell him to remain.
I shall probably have to give it another coat of varnish before that, so I must see it some day, and why not to-day?”

“To exhibit it! You want to exhibit it?” exclaimed Dorian Gray, a strange sense of terror creeping over him.
There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful.
When he entered, a young man with smooth yellow hair, who was bending over a lamp lighting a long thin pipe, looked up at him and nodded in a hesitating manner.
How long have you known her?”

“About three weeks.”

“And where did you come across her?”

“I will tell you, Harry, but you mustn’t be unsympathetic about it.
When Aunt Agatha sits down to the piano, she makes quite enough noise for two people.”

“That is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me,” answered Dorian, laughing.
I know, now, that when one loses one’s good looks, whatever they may be, one loses everything.
You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with others.
When a man says that one knows that life has exhausted him.
And yet if it had been merely an illusion, how terrible it was to think that conscience could raise such fearful phantoms, and give them visible form, and make them move before one! What sort of life would his be if, day and night, shadows of his crime were to peer at him from silent corners, to mock him from secret places, to whisper in his ear as he sat at the feast, to wake him with icy fingers as he lay asleep! As the thought crept through his brain, he grew pale with terror, and the air seemed to him to have become suddenly colder.
I thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted.
When Lord Henry entered the room, he found his uncle sitting in a rough shooting-coat, smoking a cheroot and grumbling over The Times.
But really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the women one meets! There is something to me quite beautiful about her death.
When his servant entered, he looked at him steadfastly and wondered if he had thought of peering behind the screen.
Women represent the triumph of matter over mind, just as men represent the triumph of mind over morals.”

“Harry, how can you?”

“My dear Dorian, it is quite true.
How pleasant it was in the garden! And how delightful other people’s emotions were!—much more delightful than their ideas, it seemed to him.
My God! how mad I was to love you! What a fool I have been! You are nothing to me now.
His extraordinary absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear again in society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass him with a sneer, or look at him with cold searching eyes, as though they were determined to discover his secret.
My God, Harry, how I worship her!” He was walking up and down the room as he spoke.
It makes me shudder when I hear it.
He remembered that Lord Henry had said to him once, half seriously and half in jest, “If you want to have a strange quarter of an hour, get Basil to tell you why he won’t exhibit your picture.
Write to me when you are coming.
What was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked?
How grave you are! Don’t be so serious.
At least, I can’t believe them when I see you.
Poor woman! What a state she must be in! And her only child, too! What did she say about it all?”

“My dear Basil, how do I know?” murmured Dorian Gray, sipping some pale-yellow wine from a delicate, gold-beaded bubble of Venetian glass and looking dreadfully bored.
How different Sibyl was! She lived her finest tragedy.
He was rather sorry he had come, till Lady Narborough, looking at the great ormolu gilt clock that sprawled in gaudy curves on the mauve-draped mantelshelf, exclaimed: “How horrid of Henry Wotton to be so late! I sent round to him this morning on chance and he promised faithfully not to disappoint me.”

It was some consolation that Harry was to be there, and when the door opened and he heard his slow musical voice lending charm to some insincere apology, he ceased to feel bored.
Came to Madrid once when I was there.
How evil he looked! The face was saturnine and swarthy, and the sensual lips seemed to be twisted with disdain.
I was a schoolboy when you knew me.
How quickly it had all been done! He felt strangely calm, and walking over to the window, opened it and stepped out on the balcony.
Women, as some witty Frenchman once put it, inspire us with the desire to do masterpieces and always prevent us from carrying them out.”

“Harry, you are dreadful! I don’t know why I like you so much.”

“You will always like me, Dorian,” he replied.
And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing! First in the dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of cruelty round the warped lips.
How different he was now from the shy frightened boy he had met in Basil Hallward’s studio! His nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of scarlet flame.
When a man marries again, it is because he adored his first wife.
When we blame ourselves, we feel that no one else has a right to blame us.
Well, I am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at Marlow together, the young man who used to say that yellow satin could console one for all the miseries of life.
How inquisitive you are, Harry! You always want to know what one has been doing.
How horribly late! You must wake me at nine to-morrow.
That was when acting was really understood.
The harsh intervals and shrill discords of barbaric music stirred him at times when Schubert’s grace, and Chopin’s beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of Beethoven himself, fell unheeded on his ear.
He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the portrait.
When I was in the Diplomatic, things were much better.
When you are ill you shouldn’t act.
When critics disagree, the artist is in accord with himself.
“I don’t know how we could manage without him,” answered the elder woman querulously.
When your youth goes, your beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly discover that there are no triumphs left for you, or have to content yourself with those mean triumphs that the memory of your past will make more bitter than defeats.
She consoled herself by telling Sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now that she had only one child to look after.
How could I admire her?
There are moments when the odour of lilas blanc passes suddenly across me, and I have to live the strangest month of my life over again.
He is some brainless beautiful creature who should be always here in winter when we have no flowers to look at, and always here in summer when we want something to chill our intelligence.
“Especially when one has been wounded by it,” answered Lord Henry.
You know yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature.
I was only happy when I was with you.
How had she played that dreadful last scene?
When you and he ceased to be great friends, he ceased to be a great artist.
But when did you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?”

“The third night.
He realized that, and when he had locked the door of his library, he opened the secret press into which he had thrust Basil Hallward’s coat and bag.
When our eyes met, I felt that I was growing pale.
I believe there is no society of any kind in the Colonies—nothing that I would call society—so when you have made your fortune, you must come back and assert yourself in London.”

“Society!” muttered the lad.
Ah! when you have lost it you won’t smile....
He took it up, as he had done on that night of horror when he had first noted the change in the fatal picture, and with wild, tear-dimmed eyes looked into its polished shield.
Why not?
“I knew you were following him when you rushed out from Daly’s.
He only interested me once, and that was when he told me, years ago, that he had a wild adoration for you and that you were the dominant motive of his art.”

“I was very fond of Basil,” said Dorian with a note of sadness in his voice.
It would kill the past, and when that was dead, he would be free.
There were times when it appeared to Dorian Gray that the whole of history was merely the record of his own life, not as he had lived it in act and circumstance, but as his imagination had created it for him, as it had been in his brain and in his passions.
He remembered that the night before he had forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas, and was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a shudder.
That is the reason why people who live out of town are so absolutely uncivilized.
His father had been our ambassador at Madrid when Isabella was young and Prim unthought of, but had retired from the diplomatic service in a capricious moment of annoyance on not being offered the Embassy at Paris, a post to which he considered that he was fully entitled by reason of his birth, his indolence, the good English of his dispatches, and his inordinate passion for pleasure.
When she leaned over the balcony and came to those wonderful lines—

Although I joy in thee,
I have no joy of this contract to-night:
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
Ere one can say, “It lightens.” Sweet, good-night!
This bud of love by summer’s ripening breath
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet—

she spoke the words as though they conveyed no meaning to her.
And yet I see you very seldom, and you never come down to the studio now, and when I am away from you, and I hear all these hideous things that people are whispering about you, I don’t know what to say.
He thought of his friend’s young fiery-coloured life and wondered how it was all going to end.
When the Huns lured the king into the great pit, he flung it away—Procopius tells the story—nor was it ever found again, though the Emperor Anastasius offered five hundred-weight of gold pieces for it.
To the present day I can’t make out why I did so; and yet if I hadn’t—my dear Harry, if I hadn’t—I should have missed the greatest romance of my life.
Why do you try to persuade our nice Mr. Dorian Gray to give up the East End?
When the farm-servant had done so, he stepped forward.
When we meet—we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together, or go down to the Duke’s—we tell each other the most absurd stories with the most serious faces.
I dare say it will be better after lunch, when we get to new ground.”

Dorian strolled along by his side.
From a psychological point of view, how interesting he was! The new manner in art, the fresh mode of looking at life, suggested so strangely by the merely visible presence of one who was unconscious of it all; the silent spirit that dwelt in dim woodland, and walked unseen in open field, suddenly showing herself, Dryadlike and not afraid, because in his soul who sought for her there had been wakened that wonderful vision to which alone are wonderful things revealed; the mere shapes and patterns of things becoming, as it were, refined, and gaining a kind of symbolical value, as though they were themselves patterns of some other and more perfect form whose shadow they made real: how strange it all was! He remembered something like it in history.
When I first heard them, I laughed.
He had just turned round to say something when the door opened and Sibyl ran in.
He shuddered, and for a moment he regretted that he had not told Basil the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away.
He, too, felt that we were destined to know each other.”

“And how did Lady Brandon describe this wonderful young man?” asked his companion.
When Lord Henry had sat down again, Mr. Erskine moved round, and taking a chair close to him, placed his hand upon his arm.
“It is quite true, I never talk when I am working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious for my unfortunate sitters.
When they reached the Achilles Statue, she turned round.
