And why was the red stain larger than it had been?
Would he ever look at it again?
If it was not true, why trouble about it?
What did it mean?
Why have you not told me about him?
I suppose they don’t know your name at the theatre?
I wrote to you this morning, and sent the note down by my own man.”

“Your letter?
Are they true?
What did it matter?
“So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil?
“Why not, Mother?
But who could tell?
Why had he worn its livery?
Poor?
What about the young Duke of Perth?
So she left a son, did she?
What can you expect?
“Will you have some coffee, you fellows?
But what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, eyes other than his spied behind and saw the horrible change?
Didn’t you recognize me?”

“In this fog, my dear Basil?
And Basil?
Would it teach him to loathe his own soul?
Are you ill?
Was it not Buonarotti who had carved it in the coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence?
Did any one see you going round to her room?
Was it to alter now with every mood to which he yielded?
But this murder—was it to dog him all his life?
Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it?
What could atone for that?
But the picture?
You smile?
Why not tell me what it is?
He may not have intended it, the result was the same.”

“Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to?
You have never been to any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray?
I hate it.”

“Oh, Jim!” said Sibyl, laughing, “how unkind of you! But are you really going for a walk with me?
“How can you say that?
“Who is he?
Have you any reason?
What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane’s death?
How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror?
Money?
Did I teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery?
“Ten minutes past two?
Now I want to know about the girl.”

“Sibyl?
What was the use of knowing?
The merely visible presence of this lad—for he seems to me little more than a lad, though he is really over twenty—his merely visible presence—ah! I wonder can you realize all that that means?
What about Adrian Singleton and his dreadful end?
You don’t really mind, Basil, do you?
Why should it keep what I must lose?
It was horrible! Why is your friendship so fatal to young men?
Mere words! Was there anything so real as words?
And what did she say in answer?
But who drove him to it?
By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he did of you?
Why do you try to persuade our nice Mr. Dorian Gray to give up the East End?
What had this man’s legacy been?
What is past is past.”

“You call yesterday the past?”

“What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it?
“Not send it anywhere?
Why did he get in front of the guns?
Was it very bad?
Were people to gape at the mystery of his life?
Surely a painted canvas could not alter?
“Was the poor fellow married?
To give himself up and be put to death?
Why should he have been murdered?
Or the desire for a new sensation, as Lord Henry had hinted, with his mocking laugh?
Was it to become a monstrous and loathsome thing, to be hidden away in a locked room, to be shut out from the sunlight that had so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair?
Harry! if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me! You remember that landscape of mine, for which Agnew offered me such a huge price but which I would not part with?
Were his own actions merely the dreams that the dead man had not dared to realize?
But who had done it?
Surely it was not still so horrible as it had been?
Or was there some other, more terrible reason?
My dear fellow, why?
What was it separated you?
“Your life?
Why had he been made like that?
Know you?
Even if he told them, would they believe it?
Vanity?
Finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, “Harry, did you say an inquest?
What was he to say of that?
Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can’t you see what I am going through?
“My dear Basil! Surely you don’t think it was a vulgar accident?
Why should I not love her?
His own picture! What did it mean?
What sort of boy is he?
Was it all true?
What could he do then?
If one hears bad music, it is one’s duty to drown it in conversation.”

“Ah! that is one of Harry’s views, isn’t it, Mr. Gray?
“Do you mean to say you don’t like what I did of you?
You remember Sibyl, don’t you?
“Mr. Dorian Gray?
Besides, I don’t suppose you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a wooden doll?
What if it should be stolen?
You didn’t see anything else in the picture, did you?
Or had his choice already been made?
And, yet, what was there to be afraid of?
“What do you mean?
And, yet, what a great reward one received! How wonderful the whole world became to one! To note the curious hard logic of passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect—to observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they were in unison, and at what point they were at discord—there was a delight in that! What matter what the cost was?
Or was that merely his own fancy?
Why have you pulled the screen in front of it?
What could they know of love such as ours?
You are dining out, I suppose?
On a yacht one is safe.”

“Safe from what, Dorian?
Or shall we lunch with our little duchess?
You don’t imagine I let him arrange my room for me?
Why is it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs?
Why had he kept it so long?
‘A dream of form in days of thought’—who is it who says that?
Did Sibyl—?
How proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose! What passions had he bequeathed?
Can they be true?
Or would you like hock-and-seltzer?
Didn’t you get my letter?
A wonderful tragic figure?
Who wants happiness?
“Money, Mother?” she cried, “what does money matter?
What are you now?
Where is it?
What sort of life has he got now?
What if Alan Campbell should be out of England?
Do you think this girl will ever be really content now with any one of her own rank?
They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they have no account.”

“Harry,” cried Dorian Gray, coming over and sitting down beside him, “why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want to?
“Mother, Mother,” she cried, “why does he love me so much?
Was it some dim sense of that ruined grace that had made him so suddenly, and almost without cause, give utterance, in Basil Hallward’s studio, to the mad prayer that had so changed his life?
“Why have you changed your mind?
How should I know?
But what does he see in me?
And so will you, Harry?
I have been right, Basil, haven’t I, to take my love out of poetry and to find my wife in Shakespeare’s plays?
Is that very vain of me?
Or was it indifferent to results?
Where the huge velarium that Nero had stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, that Titan sail of purple on which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot drawn by white, gilt-reined steeds?
Who could say where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the psychical impulse began?
Who had made him a judge over others?
Was the world going to be shown his secret?
Here was Philip Herbert, described by Francis Osborne, in his Memoires on the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth and King James, as one who was “caressed by the Court for his handsome face, which kept him not long company.” Was it young Herbert’s life that he sometimes led?
Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane?
What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own picture?
What about Lord Kent’s only son and his career?
And why is it so?
What is it to me where she came from?
“Dorian,” said Lord Henry at last, as the chaud-froid was being handed round, “what is the matter with you to-night?
Curiosity?
Why not let it stay there?
You remember the one I wore at Lady Hilstone’s garden-party?
Could it be that what that soul thought, they realized?—that what it dreamed, they made true?
Should he move it aside, after all?
They all are, ain’t they?
Might there not be some curious scientific reason for it all?
And you will promise to talk to me all the time?
Fitzherbert?
What is it but canvas and colour?
Don’t laugh.”

“Why have you stopped playing, Dorian?
Surely his wish had not been fulfilled?
Was it not Plato, that artist in thought, who had first analyzed it?
How different it was with material things! Where had they passed to?
What have you or I to do with the superstitions of our age?
“But why should you be annoyed?
Had the portrait really changed?
What have I to do with the puppets of a play?
Was that one of the things that life had in store?
Had some strange poisonous germ crept from body to body till it had reached his own?
With such blood as he has in his veins, how could his record be clean?
What does it matter?
Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are—my art, whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray’s good looks—we shall all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly.”

“Dorian Gray?
Why, they will hang me, Alan! Don’t you understand?
How can you say such horrible things?
The light was too strong on the portrait.”

“Too strong! Surely not, my dear fellow?
Why had he not known it?
What was youth at best?
Sin is the only real colour-element left in modern life.”

“You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry.”

“Before which Dorian?
And yet, who, that knew anything about life, would surrender the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught?
Why had it been left for a stranger to reveal him to himself?
And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead themselves?
Do you think, then, that a man who has once committed a murder could possibly do the same crime again?
His sin?
Hypocrisy?
It was true that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn from that?
I wonder do I know you?
“Why do you ask me?
Besides, was it really under his control?
Perhaps you are tired of Gladys?
Whom did she marry?
Shall you see Basil between this and then?
Had there been nothing more in his renunciation than that?
There is nothing that you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do.”

“But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and old, and wrinkled?
It is the secret of their charm.”

“Why can’t these American women stay in their own country?
Why had such a soul been given to him?
Besides, even if he did confess, who would believe him?
If Adrian Singleton writes his friend’s name across a bill, am I his keeper?
Who is he?
And what is Ferrol like?
Cruelty! Had he been cruel?
What about your country-house and the life that is led there?
Why inquire too closely into it?
“Who wouldn’t like it?
Even those that are born in England become foreigners after a time, don’t they?
Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead?
Ah! you don’t know what it cost me to tell you all that I have told you.”

“My dear Basil,” said Dorian, “what have you told me?
Was there no hope for him?
“Dorian!”

“Don’t speak!”

“But what is the matter?
“What do you want?
How could I admire her?
Yet, after all, what did it matter to him?
What is going on in town?
Or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things finer than we are ourselves?
Is that right?
“What is it?
“I never thought you would.”

“Appreciate it?
Had the lover of Giovanna of Naples bequeathed him some inheritance of sin and shame?
Did you go down and see the girl’s mother?
Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn’t it?
Why shouldn’t you look at it?
“You went to the opera while Sibyl Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging?
Or was the body really in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought?
Was it not Gautier who used to write about la consolation des arts?
What was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked?
I should fancy that crime was to them what art is to us, simply a method of procuring extraordinary sensations.”

“A method of procuring sensations?
Confess?
Which is he?
Had it been merely vanity that had made him do his one good deed?
Besides, what do you know of this young man?
Or, perhaps, all these?
After a few moments he said to him, “Have you really a very bad influence, Lord Henry?
Had it indeed been prayer that had produced the substitution?
And, besides, might not his nature grow finer, after all?
Would there ever be some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry?
What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood?
Why had it altered?
Was there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves into form and colour on the canvas and the soul that was within him?
Where shall we go?
Is insincerity such a terrible thing?
Did you advertise for it?
Have another brandy-and-soda?
What had happened?
If we women did not love you for your defects, where would you all be?
Will it always be so?
Or had it been simply his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there had been a look of joy?
“At what particular point did you mention the word marriage, Dorian?
“How long ago is it since your sister died?
Oh, if it were only the other way! If the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint it?
You shrug your shoulders?
“Isn’t it, Mr. Gray?
Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen?
It seems silly of the French, doesn’t it?
Perhaps one should never put one’s worship into words.”

“It was a very disappointing confession.”

“Why, what did you expect, Dorian?
“You won’t?
What is marriage?
Had he something of her temperament in him?
What was he doing there?
You never got it back?
Makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn’t it?
Why not?
But you, oh! can’t you forgive me for to-night?
What did you mean by that?
“Can you move it, covering and all, just as it is?
Where was the great crocus-coloured robe, on which the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked by brown girls for the pleasure of Athena?
You value beauty far too much.”

“How can you say that?
Did it mean that he was to confess?
How shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! And yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools! Was the soul a shadow seated in the house of sin?
Do you think I am going to peril my reputation for you?
Indeed, what right had Basil to have spoken to him as he had done?
Was he always to be burdened by his past?
Was it really true that one could never change?
In the present case, what is it that has really happened?
But was it all irretrievable?
My God! My God! Harry, what shall I do?
“Why on earth don’t you keep your men back?
And by the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this humbug your father tells me about Dartmoor wanting to marry an American?
Was the face on the canvas viler than before?
“Well, Harry,” said the old gentleman, “what brings you out so early?
What does that matter?
How had she played that dreadful last scene?
What did it matter what happened to the coloured image on the canvas?
It is a gentleman, isn’t it, who is in love with her, or says he is?
But where were you?
If thought could exercise its influence upon a living organism, might not thought exercise an influence upon dead and inorganic things?
And yet, what evidence was there against him?
What did you do afterwards?
You won’t?
Was it true that the senses could cure it?
What more can one want?
And, yet, what did it matter?
What was she like?
What of George Willoughby, with his powdered hair and fantastic patches?
Is there a single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the park?
How long will you like me?
Why do you ask?
After all, what right had he to pry into the life of Dorian Gray?
“You will have tea, of course, Dorian?
Nay, without thought or conscious desire, might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods and passions, atom calling to atom in secret love or strange affinity?
You can talk to me of other women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in?
“Where, sir?
Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian?
Why do you talk of it?
Was he really to confess?
Tuesday?
Why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul?
“What is it that one was taught to say in one’s boyhood?
Had she cursed him, as she died?
If Kent’s silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me?
Had it hit the mark?
How lovely that thing you are playing is! I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca, with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against the panes?
Did it merely take cognizance of what passed within the soul?
Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand now what it signifies?
