When they reached the top landing, Dorian set the lamp down on the floor, and taking out the key, turned it in the lock.
And why was the red stain larger than it had been?
My God! My God! Harry, what shall I do?
“Oh! my maid does that already, Mr. Gray, when she is annoyed with me.”

“And what does she get annoyed with you about, Duchess?”

“For the most trivial things, Mr. Gray, I assure you.
The young man was leaning against the mantelshelf, watching him with that strange expression that one sees on the faces of those who are absorbed in a play when some great artist is acting.
Who is he?
Were his own actions merely the dreams that the dead man had not dared to realize?
Poor?
When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I felt that I was right....
Was it to alter now with every mood to which he yielded?
Why had he been made like that?
His extraordinary absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear again in society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass him with a sneer, or look at him with cold searching eyes, as though they were determined to discover his secret.
I suppose they don’t know your name at the theatre?
Perhaps one should never put one’s worship into words.”

“It was a very disappointing confession.”

“Why, what did you expect, Dorian?
Was there no hope for him?
“I really cannot understand it.”

“It is simply because she remembers you when you were a little girl, Lady Narborough,” said Lord Henry.
Was it true that the senses could cure it?
Finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, “Harry, did you say an inquest?
Have another brandy-and-soda?
Was it some dim sense of that ruined grace that had made him so suddenly, and almost without cause, give utterance, in Basil Hallward’s studio, to the mad prayer that had so changed his life?
When he closed his eyes, he saw again the sailor’s face peering through the mist-stained glass, and horror seemed once more to lay its hand upon his heart.
Well, I am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at Marlow together, the young man who used to say that yellow satin could console one for all the miseries of life.
And how happy we used to be together! Don’t leave me, Basil, and don’t quarrel with me.
Where shall we go?
When he had stretched himself on the sofa, he looked at the title-page of the book.
Why do you try to persuade our nice Mr. Dorian Gray to give up the East End?
Curiosity?
What can you expect?
And, yet, what a great reward one received! How wonderful the whole world became to one! To note the curious hard logic of passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect—to observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they were in unison, and at what point they were at discord—there was a delight in that! What matter what the cost was?
“Not send it anywhere?
He felt keenly conscious of how barren all intellectual speculation is when separated from action and experiment.
In the garden-scene it had all the tremulous ecstasy that one hears just before dawn when nightingales are singing.
“How long ago is it since your sister died?
By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he did of you?
Vanity?
Women represent the triumph of matter over mind, just as men represent the triumph of mind over morals.”

“Harry, how can you?”

“My dear Dorian, it is quite true.
Shall you see Basil between this and then?
Surely a painted canvas could not alter?
Should he move it aside, after all?
He was amazed at the sudden impression that his words had produced, and, remembering a book that he had read when he was sixteen, a book which had revealed to him much that he had not known before, he wondered whether Dorian Gray was passing through a similar experience.
They are perfectly charming.”

“That entirely depends on how you sit to-day, Dorian.”

“Oh, I am tired of sitting, and I don’t want a life-sized portrait of myself,” answered the lad, swinging round on the music-stool in a wilful, petulant manner.
Oh, if it were only the other way! If the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint it?
But when she does find me out, she makes no row at all.
I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen.
Would it teach him to loathe his own soul?
How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror?
And what is Ferrol like?
When you see Sibyl Vane, you will feel that the man who could wrong her would be a beast, a beast without a heart.
Why had he not known it?
How often do you see him?”

“Every day.
I was only happy when I was with you.
“Who wouldn’t like it?
“One hour and a quarter, Monsieur.”

How late it was! He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his letters.
Besides, even if he did confess, who would believe him?
If Adrian Singleton writes his friend’s name across a bill, am I his keeper?
What could he do then?
If one hears bad music, it is one’s duty to drown it in conversation.”

“Ah! that is one of Harry’s views, isn’t it, Mr. Gray?
Why shouldn’t you look at it?
I hate it.”

“Oh, Jim!” said Sibyl, laughing, “how unkind of you! But are you really going for a walk with me?
What have you or I to do with the superstitions of our age?
When we blame ourselves, we feel that no one else has a right to blame us.
Do you think I am going to peril my reputation for you?
Surely his wish had not been fulfilled?
Even those that are born in England become foreigners after a time, don’t they?
Why, they will hang me, Alan! Don’t you understand?
Did I teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery?
And how charming he had been at dinner the night before, as with startled eyes and lips parted in frightened pleasure he had sat opposite to him at the club, the red candleshades staining to a richer rose the wakening wonder of his face.
Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead?
I think you might have telegraphed for me when you heard of it first.
You never got it back?
Was it really true that one could never change?
When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI., visited Louis XII.
His father had been our ambassador at Madrid when Isabella was young and Prim unthought of, but had retired from the diplomatic service in a capricious moment of annoyance on not being offered the Embassy at Paris, a post to which he considered that he was fully entitled by reason of his birth, his indolence, the good English of his dispatches, and his inordinate passion for pleasure.
Was it not Plato, that artist in thought, who had first analyzed it?
Yes, there would be a day when his face would be wrinkled and wizen, his eyes dim and colourless, the grace of his figure broken and deformed.
He shuddered, and for a moment he regretted that he had not told Basil the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away.
You can talk to me of other women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in?
On a yacht one is safe.”

“Safe from what, Dorian?
But what does he see in me?
Over and over again Dorian used to read this fantastic chapter, and the two chapters immediately following, in which, as in some curious tapestries or cunningly wrought enamels, were pictured the awful and beautiful forms of those whom vice and blood and weariness had made monstrous or mad: Filippo, Duke of Milan, who slew his wife and painted her lips with a scarlet poison that her lover might suck death from the dead thing he fondled; Pietro Barbi, the Venetian, known as Paul the Second, who sought in his vanity to assume the title of Formosus, and whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the price of a terrible sin; Gian Maria Visconti, who used hounds to chase living men and whose murdered body was covered with roses by a harlot who had loved him; the Borgia on his white horse, with Fratricide riding beside him and his mantle stained with the blood of Perotto; Pietro Riario, the young Cardinal Archbishop of Florence, child and minion of Sixtus IV., whose beauty was equalled only by his debauchery, and who received Leonora of Aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson silk, filled with nymphs and centaurs, and gilded a boy that he might serve at the feast as Ganymede or Hylas; Ezzelin, whose melancholy could be cured only by the spectacle of death, and who had a passion for red blood, as other men have for red wine—the son of the Fiend, as was reported, and one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling with him for his own soul; Giambattista Cibo, who in mockery took the name of Innocent and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads was infused by a Jewish doctor; Sigismondo Malatesta, the lover of Isotta and the lord of Rimini, whose effigy was burned at Rome as the enemy of God and man, who strangled Polyssena with a napkin, and gave poison to Ginevra d’Este in a cup of emerald, and in honour of a shameful passion built a pagan church for Christian worship; Charles VI., who had so wildly adored his brother’s wife that a leper had warned him of the insanity that was coming on him, and who, when his brain had sickened and grown strange, could only be soothed by Saracen cards painted with the images of love and death and madness; and, in his trimmed jerkin and jewelled cap and acanthuslike curls, Grifonetto Baglioni, who slew Astorre with his bride, and Simonetto with his page, and whose comeliness was such that, as he lay dying in the yellow piazza of Perugia, those who had hated him could not choose but weep, and Atalanta, who had cursed him, blessed him.
Could it be that what that soul thought, they realized?—that what it dreamed, they made true?
Why I shall never act well again.”

He shrugged his shoulders.
He remembered that Lord Henry had said to him once, half seriously and half in jest, “If you want to have a strange quarter of an hour, get Basil to tell you why he won’t exhibit your picture.
He remembered that the night before he had forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas, and was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a shudder.
Why shouldn’t I look at it?” exclaimed Hallward, laughing.
When the coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt a wild desire to tell him to remain.
That is the reason why I want you to be fine.
When a woman marries again, it is because she detested her first husband.
Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I told her what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of her power.
How curious!”

“Yes, it was very curious.
They wondered how one so charming and graceful as he was could have escaped the stain of an age that was at once sordid and sensual.
A wonderful tragic figure?
There was a wild recklessness of gaiety in his manner as he sat at table, but now and then a thrill of terror ran through him when he remembered that, pressed against the window of the conservatory, like a white handkerchief, he had seen the face of James Vane watching him.
Or had his choice already been made?
You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with others.
Will it always be so?
Whom did she marry?
“I don’t know how we could manage without him,” answered the elder woman querulously.
The harsh intervals and shrill discords of barbaric music stirred him at times when Schubert’s grace, and Chopin’s beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of Beethoven himself, fell unheeded on his ear.
I get hungry for her presence; and when I think of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I am filled with awe.”

“You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can’t you?”

He shook his head.
“Your life?
“What do you mean?
But really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the women one meets! There is something to me quite beautiful about her death.
“I always agree with Harry, Duchess.”

“Even when he is wrong?”

“Harry is never wrong, Duchess.”

“And does his philosophy make you happy?”

“I have never searched for happiness.
Taking some one else’s admirer when one loses one’s own.
Or was that merely his own fancy?
I see that Basil is in one of his sulky moods, and I can’t bear him when he sulks.
Or had it been simply his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there had been a look of joy?
Even if he told them, would they believe it?
What does that matter?
“Mother, Mother,” she cried, “why does he love me so much?
You know yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature.
It was horrible! Why is your friendship so fatal to young men?
I want you to explain to me why you won’t exhibit Dorian Gray’s picture.
Perhaps you are tired of Gladys?
How proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose! What passions had he bequeathed?
Why had it altered?
“Where, sir?
“Happy!” she echoed, “I am only happy, Sibyl, when I see you act.
How grave you are! Don’t be so serious.
What more can one want?
How like a sympathetic person! You remind me of a story Harry told me about a certain philanthropist who spent twenty years of his life in trying to get some grievance redressed, or some unjust law altered—I forget exactly what it was.
When I was in the Diplomatic, things were much better.
Have you any reason?
Did you advertise for it?
Did you go down and see the girl’s mother?
“You won’t?
He told me why he wouldn’t, and it was a revelation to me.” Yes, perhaps Basil, too, had his secret.
Why did he get in front of the guns?
Had it been merely vanity that had made him do his one good deed?
Was there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves into form and colour on the canvas and the soul that was within him?
Surely it was not still so horrible as it had been?
When she acts, you will forget everything.
How long have you known her?”

“Ah! Harry, your views terrify me.”

“Never mind that.
But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they met and that Campbell seemed always to go away early from any party at which Dorian Gray was present.
What about your country-house and the life that is led there?
I shall probably have to give it another coat of varnish before that, so I must see it some day, and why not to-day?”

“To exhibit it! You want to exhibit it?” exclaimed Dorian Gray, a strange sense of terror creeping over him.
Why should it keep what I must lose?
Or was there some other, more terrible reason?
It was long after seven when Campbell came back into the library.
Or would you like hock-and-seltzer?
Did any one see you going round to her room?
Hypocrisy?
He is never more present in my work than when no image of him is there.
Was that one of the things that life had in store?
Is that very vain of me?
“Do you mean to say you don’t like what I did of you?
Men who talked grossly became silent when Dorian Gray entered the room.
When the half-hour struck, he passed his hand across his forehead, and then got up hastily and dressed himself with even more than his usual care, giving a good deal of attention to the choice of his necktie and scarf-pin and changing his rings more than once.
“Dorian,” said Lord Henry at last, as the chaud-froid was being handed round, “what is the matter with you to-night?
“Why not, Mother?
When I am painting, I can’t think of anything else.
How extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had read all this in a book, Harry, I think I would have wept over it.
When they took lovers, it was merely to have some one with whom they could have scenes.
When our eyes met, I felt that I was growing pale.
That book you sent me so fascinated me that I forgot how the time was going.”

“Yes, I thought you would like it,” replied his host, rising from his chair.
How little he had thought, in those dead days, of all that was in store for him!

But there was no other place in the house so secure from prying eyes as this.
“Who is he?
What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own picture?
Why should he have been murdered?
Why do you ask?
She showed no sign of joy when her eyes rested on Romeo.
Came to Madrid once when I was there.
When Sibyl comes on the stage you will have a new ideal of life.
But you, oh! can’t you forgive me for to-night?
How different Sibyl was! She lived her finest tragedy.
How exquisite life had once been! How gorgeous in its pomp and decoration! Even to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful.
Words! Mere words! How terrible they were! How clear, and vivid, and cruel! One could not escape from them.
Sin is the only real colour-element left in modern life.”

“You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry.”

“Before which Dorian?
Did Sibyl—?
Of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why she should not contract an alliance with him.
When they reached the Achilles Statue, she turned round.
After a few moments he said to him, “Have you really a very bad influence, Lord Henry?
Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen?
Confess?
These common rough people, with their coarse faces and brutal gestures, become quite different when she is on the stage.
Who could say where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the psychical impulse began?
How little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! Without your art, you are nothing.
What does it matter?
What are you now?
When poverty creeps in at the door, love flies in through the window.
But who drove him to it?
When he entered, a young man with smooth yellow hair, who was bending over a lamp lighting a long thin pipe, looked up at him and nodded in a hesitating manner.
She had proved an excellent wife to one of our most tedious ambassadors, and having buried her husband properly in a marble mausoleum, which she had herself designed, and married off her daughters to some rich, rather elderly men, she devoted herself now to the pleasures of French fiction, French cookery, and French esprit when she could get it.
From a psychological point of view, how interesting he was! The new manner in art, the fresh mode of looking at life, suggested so strangely by the merely visible presence of one who was unconscious of it all; the silent spirit that dwelt in dim woodland, and walked unseen in open field, suddenly showing herself, Dryadlike and not afraid, because in his soul who sought for her there had been wakened that wonderful vision to which alone are wonderful things revealed; the mere shapes and patterns of things becoming, as it were, refined, and gaining a kind of symbolical value, as though they were themselves patterns of some other and more perfect form whose shadow they made real: how strange it all was! He remembered something like it in history.
Why had he worn its livery?
When her third husband died, her hair turned quite gold from grief.”

“How can you, Harry!” cried Dorian.
Besides, I want you to tell me why I should not go in for philanthropy.”

“I don’t know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray.
Write to me when you are coming.
“But why should you be annoyed?
Is insincerity such a terrible thing?
Ah! Lord Henry, I wish you would tell me how to become young again.”

He thought for a moment.
Her shallow secret nature was troubled when their eyes met.
Compared to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how shallow Basil’s reproaches about Sibyl Vane had been!—how shallow, and of what little account! His own soul was looking out at him from the canvas and calling him to judgement.
What sort of boy is he?
When his servant entered, he looked at him steadfastly and wondered if he had thought of peering behind the screen.
Might there not be some curious scientific reason for it all?
You don’t really mind, Basil, do you?
Had there been nothing more in his renunciation than that?
Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane?
Is there a single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the park?
Oh, Harry, how I loved her once! It seems years ago to me now.
When they make up their ledger, they balance stupidity by wealth, and vice by hypocrisy.”

“Still, we have done great things.”

“Great things have been thrust on us, Gladys.”

“We have carried their burden.”

“Only as far as the Stock Exchange.”

She shook her head.
He had just turned round to say something when the door opened and Sibyl ran in.
What if it should be stolen?
Harry!”

“Yes, Basil?”

“Remember what I asked you, when we were in the garden this morning.”

“I have forgotten it.”

“I trust you.”

“I wish I could trust myself,” said Lord Henry, laughing.
How different it was with material things! Where had they passed to?
There is nothing that you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do.”

“But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and old, and wrinkled?
That is the reason why people who live out of town are so absolutely uncivilized.
You have not realized how I have developed.
He may not have intended it, the result was the same.”

“Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to?
Why had such a soul been given to him?
He is some brainless beautiful creature who should be always here in winter when we have no flowers to look at, and always here in summer when we want something to chill our intelligence.
Now if Geoffrey had done the thing on purpose, how interesting he would be! I should like to know some one who had committed a real murder.”

“How horrid of you, Harry!” cried the duchess.
I was a schoolboy when you knew me.
Why not let it stay there?
How horrible that was! Such hideous things were for the darkness, not for the day.
Yet, after all, what did it matter to him?
Here was Philip Herbert, described by Francis Osborne, in his Memoires on the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth and King James, as one who was “caressed by the Court for his handsome face, which kept him not long company.” Was it young Herbert’s life that he sometimes led?
Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian?
There was a look of fear in his eyes, such as people have when they are suddenly awakened.
How horribly late! You must wake me at nine to-morrow.
But the picture?
If the caveman had known how to laugh, history would have been different.”

“You are really very comforting,” warbled the duchess.
“Mr. Dorian Gray?
“Why do you ask me?
How fascinating the lad was!

Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had the true refinement and perfect delicacy that in art, at any rate comes only from strength.
What about Adrian Singleton and his dreadful end?
If he had done a tithe of what was rumoured about him, how much he must have suffered! Then he straightened himself up, and walked over to the fire-place, and stood there, looking at the burning logs with their frostlike ashes and their throbbing cores of flame.
But I remember her very well at Vienna thirty years ago, and how décolletée she was then.”

“She is still décolletée,” he answered, taking an olive in his long fingers; “and when she is in a very smart gown she looks like an édition de luxe of a bad French novel.
How still it was! How horribly white the long hands looked! It was like a dreadful wax image.
Oh! in what a wild hour of madness he had killed his friend! How ghastly the mere memory of the scene! He saw it all again.
There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful.
Then—but I don’t know how to explain it to you.
Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I will tell him what you want.
How well he remembered it all! Every moment of his lonely childhood came back to him as he looked round.
My dear fellow, why?
How long have you known her?”

“About three weeks.”

“And where did you come across her?”

“I will tell you, Harry, but you mustn’t be unsympathetic about it.
“Was the poor fellow married?
I must call you Prince Charming.’”

“Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments.”

“You don’t understand her, Harry.
Was he really to confess?
He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the portrait.
‘Have a box, my Lord?’ he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an air of gorgeous servility.
“Why have you changed your mind?
What did you mean by that?
He was rather sorry he had come, till Lady Narborough, looking at the great ormolu gilt clock that sprawled in gaudy curves on the mauve-draped mantelshelf, exclaimed: “How horrid of Henry Wotton to be so late! I sent round to him this morning on chance and he promised faithfully not to disappoint me.”

It was some consolation that Harry was to be there, and when the door opened and he heard his slow musical voice lending charm to some insincere apology, he ceased to feel bored.
When the cab drew up at the theatre, it seemed to him that he had grown years older.
Was it very bad?
You remember the one I wore at Lady Hilstone’s garden-party?
What is past is past.”

“You call yesterday the past?”

“What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it?
Would he ever look at it again?
How curious it all seemed! And his mother with her Lady Hamilton face and her moist, wine-dashed lips—he knew what he had got from her.
How heavy this chest is! I’ll take it for you.
It would kill the past, and when that was dead, he would be free.
There are moments, psychologists tell us, when the passion for sin, or for what the world calls sin, so dominates a nature that every fibre of the body, as every cell of the brain, seems to be instinct with fearful impulses.
But what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, eyes other than his spied behind and saw the horrible change?
What was the use of knowing?
You won’t?
I can’t tell you how heart-broken I am about the whole thing.
Had some strange poisonous germ crept from body to body till it had reached his own?
Why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul?
It is the hour when we sleep there.”

“All of you, Mr. Erskine?”

“Forty of us, in forty arm-chairs.
When the blood crept from its face, and left behind a pallid mask of chalk with leaden eyes, he would keep the glamour of boyhood.
I know, now, that when one loses one’s good looks, whatever they may be, one loses everything.
It is a gentleman, isn’t it, who is in love with her, or says he is?
Play me a nocturne, Dorian, and, as you play, tell me, in a low voice, how you have kept your youth.
You don’t imagine I let him arrange my room for me?
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
He, too, felt that we were destined to know each other.”

“And how did Lady Brandon describe this wonderful young man?” asked his companion.
Jim frowned from time to time when he caught the inquisitive glance of some stranger.
With such blood as he has in his veins, how could his record be clean?
“My dear Basil! Surely you don’t think it was a vulgar accident?
When I like people immensely, I never tell their names to any one.
He was very nearly blackballed at a West End club of which his birth and social position fully entitled him to become a member, and it was said that on one occasion, when he was brought by a friend into the smoking-room of the Churchill, the Duke of Berwick and another gentleman got up in a marked manner and went out.
To the present day I can’t make out why I did so; and yet if I hadn’t—my dear Harry, if I hadn’t—I should have missed the greatest romance of my life.
When he saw me, he made me a low bow and assured me that I was a munificent patron of art.
There were times when it appeared to Dorian Gray that the whole of history was merely the record of his own life, not as he had lived it in act and circumstance, but as his imagination had created it for him, as it had been in his brain and in his passions.
Poor Basil! How little he knew of the true reason! And how strange it was that, instead of having been forced to reveal his own secret, he had succeeded, almost by chance, in wresting a secret from his friend! How much that strange confession explained to him! The painter’s absurd fits of jealousy, his wild devotion, his extravagant panegyrics, his curious reticences—he understood them all now, and he felt sorry.
What is it but canvas and colour?
I have been right, Basil, haven’t I, to take my love out of poetry and to find my wife in Shakespeare’s plays?
They know how useful passion is for publication.
“So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil?
When she leaned over the balcony and came to those wonderful lines—

Although I joy in thee,
I have no joy of this contract to-night:
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
Ere one can say, “It lightens.” Sweet, good-night!
This bud of love by summer’s ripening breath
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet—

she spoke the words as though they conveyed no meaning to her.
What was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked?
I didn’t intend to tell it to you.”

“But why not?”

“Oh, I can’t explain.
It was long past noon when he awoke.
“I have always felt rather guilty when I came to see your dear aunt, for I take no interest at all in the East End.
I thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted.
Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can’t you see what I am going through?
Why is it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs?
“To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul!” How the words rang in his ears! His soul, certainly, was sick to death.
When he had been away, he had been filled with terror lest other eyes should look upon it.
How well you know me! But we will not talk again of what has happened.
How exquisite they were! As one read them, one seemed to be floating down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city, seated in a black gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains.
I believe there is no society of any kind in the Colonies—nothing that I would call society—so when you have made your fortune, you must come back and assert yourself in London.”

“Society!” muttered the lad.
And when a woman finds that out about her husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy, or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman’s husband has to pay for.
In the present case, what is it that has really happened?
How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow! You must come and see my doctor, when we get back to town.”

Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching.
How horrible it was!—more horrible, it seemed to him for the moment, than the silent thing that he knew was stretched across the table, the thing whose grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had not stirred, but was still there, as he had left it.
When poor Southwark got into the divorce court, their indignation was quite magnificent.
At least, I can’t believe them when I see you.
Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are—my art, whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray’s good looks—we shall all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly.”

“Dorian Gray?
If you ask them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly give you the opinions current in 1820, when people wore high stocks, believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing.
Fitzherbert?
How quickly it had all been done! He felt strangely calm, and walking over to the window, opened it and stepped out on the balcony.
His own picture! What did it mean?
“Will you have some coffee, you fellows?
“Money, Mother?” she cried, “what does money matter?
He showed me a letter that his wife had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at Mentone.
Besides, what do you know of this young man?
I wish I could afford to do the same.”

“They say that when good Americans die they go to Paris,” chuckled Sir Thomas, who had a large wardrobe of Humour’s cast-off clothes.
When the sound of their footsteps had died away, Dorian locked the door and put the key in his pocket.
He took it up, as he had done on that night of horror when he had first noted the change in the fatal picture, and with wild, tear-dimmed eyes looked into its polished shield.
What was she like?
Some day, when you are old and wrinkled and ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its lines, and passion branded your lips with its hideous fires, you will feel it, you will feel it terribly.
Where is it?
How lovely that thing you are playing is! I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca, with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against the panes?
Can they be true?
Or was the body really in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought?
That is all.”

“Then why won’t you exhibit his portrait?” asked Lord Henry.
They all are, ain’t they?
When you and he ceased to be great friends, he ceased to be a great artist.
“I stayed when you asked me,” was Lord Henry’s answer.
Yesterday, when I heard that Sibyl Vane had killed herself—”

“Killed herself! Good heavens! is there no doubt about that?” cried Hallward, looking up at him with an expression of horror.
When he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here.
When a man marries again, it is because he adored his first wife.
Had it hit the mark?
Why had it been left for a stranger to reveal him to himself?
And yet, who, that knew anything about life, would surrender the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught?
He realized that, and when he had locked the door of his library, he opened the secret press into which he had thrust Basil Hallward’s coat and bag.
Besides, how do you know that Hetty isn’t floating at the present moment in some starlit mill-pond, with lovely water-lilies round her, like Ophelia?”

“I can’t bear this, Harry! You mock at everything, and then suggest the most serious tragedies.
When we meet—we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together, or go down to the Duke’s—we tell each other the most absurd stories with the most serious faces.
She doesn’t understand how to look after you.
I wonder do I know you?
I cannot understand how any one can wish to shame the thing he loves.
If we women did not love you for your defects, where would you all be?
Was it all true?
Had it indeed been prayer that had produced the substitution?
“Come, let us sit down and try what the new chef here is like, and then you will tell us how it all came about.”

“There is really not much to tell,” cried Dorian as they took their seats at the small round table.
You have never been to any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray?
Are you ill?
Which is he?
He was really very devoted to me and seemed quite sorry when he went away.
“I knew you were following him when you rushed out from Daly’s.
When a man says that one knows that life has exhausted him.
Did it mean that he was to confess?
Poor woman! What a state she must be in! And her only child, too! What did she say about it all?”

“My dear Basil, how do I know?” murmured Dorian Gray, sipping some pale-yellow wine from a delicate, gold-beaded bubble of Venetian glass and looking dreadfully bored.
What is it to me where she came from?
Women, as some witty Frenchman once put it, inspire us with the desire to do masterpieces and always prevent us from carrying them out.”

“Harry, you are dreadful! I don’t know why I like you so much.”

“You will always like me, Dorian,” he replied.
Ah! when you have lost it you won’t smile....
When I came on to-night, I could not understand how it was that everything had gone from me.
It often happened that when we thought we were experimenting on others we were really experimenting on ourselves.
So she left a son, did she?
Why should I not love her?
How different he was now from the shy frightened boy he had met in Basil Hallward’s studio! His nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of scarlet flame.
Mere words! Was there anything so real as words?
I dare say it will be better after lunch, when we get to new ground.”

Dorian strolled along by his side.
Nay, without thought or conscious desire, might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods and passions, atom calling to atom in secret love or strange affinity?
“Really! And where do bad Americans go to when they die?” inquired the duchess.
But who could tell?
“It would be murder!”

“I am glad you appreciate my work at last, Dorian,” said the painter coldly when he had recovered from his surprise.
Was the world going to be shown his secret?
Nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one’s mistakes.”

A laugh ran round the table.
And what did she say in answer?
Didn’t you get my letter?
You remember Sibyl, don’t you?
There was a rather heavy bill for a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned people and did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities; and there were several very courteously worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders offering to advance any sum of money at a moment’s notice and at the most reasonable rates of interest.
Was it to become a monstrous and loathsome thing, to be hidden away in a locked room, to be shut out from the sunlight that had so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair?
When we are happy, we are always good, but when we are good, we are not always happy.”

“Ah! but what do you mean by good?” cried Basil Hallward.
In a mad moment that, even now, I don’t know whether I regret or not, I made a wish, perhaps you would call it a prayer....”

“I remember it! Oh, how well I remember it! No! the thing is impossible.
A bishop keeps on saying at the age of eighty what he was told to say when he was a boy of eighteen, and as a natural consequence he always looks absolutely delightful.
When you were away from me, you were still present in my art....
He seemed little more than a lad of twenty summers, hardly older, if older indeed at all, than his sister had been when they had parted so many years ago.
When the second act was over, there came a storm of hisses, and Lord Henry got up from his chair and put on his coat.
“Ten minutes past two?
He thought of his friend’s young fiery-coloured life and wondered how it was all going to end.
It had made him conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl Vane.
To give himself up and be put to death?
What have I to do with the puppets of a play?
Don’t laugh.”

“Why have you stopped playing, Dorian?
My God! how mad I was to love you! What a fool I have been! You are nothing to me now.
Even those who had heard the most evil things against him—and from time to time strange rumours about his mode of life crept through London and became the chatter of the clubs—could not believe anything to his dishonour when they saw him.
I wrote to you this morning, and sent the note down by my own man.”

“Your letter?
What about the young Duke of Perth?
It must be a delightful city, and possess all the attractions of the next world.”

“What do you think has happened to Basil?” asked Dorian, holding up his Burgundy against the light and wondering how it was that he could discuss the matter so calmly.
It seems silly of the French, doesn’t it?
Why have you not told me about him?
But was it all irretrievable?
But Sibyl! You should have seen her! When she came on in her boy’s clothes, she was perfectly wonderful.
Cruelty! Had he been cruel?
When critics disagree, the artist is in accord with himself.
Some day, when you are tired of London, come down to Treadley and expound to me your philosophy of pleasure over some admirable Burgundy I am fortunate enough to possess.”

“I shall be charmed.
The merely visible presence of this lad—for he seems to me little more than a lad, though he is really over twenty—his merely visible presence—ah! I wonder can you realize all that that means?
Or, perhaps, all these?
Why do you talk of it?
“It is quite true, I never talk when I am working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious for my unfortunate sitters.
“Well, Harry,” said the old gentleman, “what brings you out so early?
Where the huge velarium that Nero had stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, that Titan sail of purple on which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot drawn by white, gilt-reined steeds?
What could they know of love such as ours?
What was it separated you?
Why I shall always be bad.
What was youth at best?
You change too often.”

“Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it.
When I first heard them, I laughed.
“You went to the opera while Sibyl Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging?
When the farm-servant had done so, he stepped forward.
When the Huns lured the king into the great pit, he flung it away—Procopius tells the story—nor was it ever found again, though the Emperor Anastasius offered five hundred-weight of gold pieces for it.
“What is it that one was taught to say in one’s boyhood?
Were people to gape at the mystery of his life?
Indeed, what right had Basil to have spoken to him as he had done?
And how pretty she had been in her cotton dresses and her large hats! She knew nothing, but she had everything that he had lost.
‘A dream of form in days of thought’—who is it who says that?
And why is it so?
But where were you?
He was looking worried, and when he heard Lord Henry’s last remark, he glanced at him, hesitated for a moment, and then said, “Harry, I want to finish this picture to-day.
Sometimes when he was down at his great house in Nottinghamshire, entertaining the fashionable young men of his own rank who were his chief companions, and astounding the county by the wanton luxury and gorgeous splendour of his mode of life, he would suddenly leave his guests and rush back to town to see that the door had not been tampered with and that the picture was still there.
Or the desire for a new sensation, as Lord Henry had hinted, with his mocking laugh?
And, besides, might not his nature grow finer, after all?
Why not?
The studio was filled with the rich odour of roses, and when the light summer wind stirred amidst the trees of the garden, there came through the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate perfume of the pink-flowering thorn.
When he saw it he drew back, and his cheeks flushed for a moment with pleasure.
But this murder—was it to dog him all his life?
And, yet, what was there to be afraid of?
What could atone for that?
If Kent’s silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me?
Ah! you don’t know what it cost me to tell you all that I have told you.”

“My dear Basil,” said Dorian, “what have you told me?
The light was too strong on the portrait.”

“Too strong! Surely not, my dear fellow?
What did it matter?
“Only when one is young,” she answered.
What had happened?
What had this man’s legacy been?
When Aunt Agatha sits down to the piano, she makes quite enough noise for two people.”

“That is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me,” answered Dorian, laughing.
How long will you like me?
He knew the precise psychological moment when to say nothing.
When I am with her, I regret all that you have taught me.
Or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things finer than we are ourselves?
And Basil?
You, who know all the secrets of life, tell me how to charm Sibyl Vane to love me! I want to make Romeo jealous.
And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing! First in the dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of cruelty round the warped lips.
When I close my eyes, I hear them, and each of them says something different.
How long ago that seems! Well, Hetty was not one of our own class, of course.
He had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled when they were shaken; the long clarin of the Mexicans, into which the performer does not blow, but through which he inhales the air; the harsh ture of the Amazon tribes, that is sounded by the sentinels who sit all day long in high trees, and can be heard, it is said, at a distance of three leagues; the teponaztli, that has two vibrating tongues of wood and is beaten with sticks that are smeared with an elastic gum obtained from the milky juice of plants; the yotl-bells of the Aztecs, that are hung in clusters like grapes; and a huge cylindrical drum, covered with the skins of great serpents, like the one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went with Cortes into the Mexican temple, and of whose doleful sound he has left us so vivid a description.
What did it mean?
But when did you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?”

“The third night.
If it was not true, why trouble about it?
But how are you going to begin?”

“By marrying Sibyl Vane.”

“Marrying Sibyl Vane!” cried Lord Henry, standing up and looking at him in perplexed amazement.
Besides, was it really under his control?
I have never seen you really and absolutely angry, but I can fancy how delightful you looked.
Was it not Buonarotti who had carved it in the coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence?
How can you say such horrible things?
I remembered what you had said to me on that wonderful evening when we first dined together, about the search for beauty being the real secret of life.
When he entered the somewhat sombre hall, the butler told him that they had gone in to lunch.
Did it merely take cognizance of what passed within the soul?
What was he to say of that?
That was when acting was really understood.
“Why on earth don’t you keep your men back?
In fact, I was on my way to the club to look for you, when I met you.
They have become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go in at once for reminiscences.
He said that he would sooner part with her when their mother was not present.
But women never know when the curtain has fallen.
“Years ago, when I was a boy,” said Dorian Gray, crushing the flower in his hand, “you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my good looks.
When he reached home, he found his servant waiting up for him.
What is marriage?
How should I know?
“What is it?
When Lord Henry had sat down again, Mr. Erskine moved round, and taking a chair close to him, placed his hand upon his arm.
When he looked back, the woman had vanished also.
“You will have tea, of course, Dorian?
When all that is settled, I shall take a West End theatre and bring her out properly.
And so will you, Harry?
How had she played that dreadful last scene?
After all, what right had he to pry into the life of Dorian Gray?
“I never thought you would.”

“Appreciate it?
It was true that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn from that?
Was he always to be burdened by his past?
When Lord Henry entered the room, he found his uncle sitting in a rough shooting-coat, smoking a cheroot and grumbling over The Times.
There were no signs of any change when he looked into the actual painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had altered.
But who had done it?
What did you do afterwards?
For some months past she had felt ill at ease when she was alone with this rough stern son of hers.
We can have in life but one great experience at best, and the secret of life is to reproduce that experience as often as possible.”

“Even when one has been wounded by it, Harry?” asked the duchess after a pause.
“And, when one has them on, they are so horrid.”

“Yes,” answered Lord Henry dreamily, “the costume of the nineteenth century is detestable.
“Dead! Sibyl dead! It is not true! It is a horrible lie! How dare you say it?”

“It is quite true, Dorian,” said Lord Henry, gravely.
He heard one of them whisper to the other, “That is Dorian Gray.” He remembered how pleased he used to be when he was pointed out, or stared at, or talked about.
But an actress! How different an actress is! Harry! why didn’t you tell me that the only thing worth loving is an actress?”

“Because I have loved so many of them, Dorian.”

“Oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces.”

“Don’t run down dyed hair and painted faces.
“You ask me why Berwick leaves a room when I enter it.
When they entered, they found hanging upon the wall a splendid portrait of their master as they had last seen him, in all the wonder of his exquisite youth and beauty.
I know why I love him.
When the verities become acrobats, we can judge them.”

“Dear me!” said Lady Agatha, “how you men argue! I am sure I never can make out what you are talking about.
There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either after one of those dreamless nights that make us almost enamoured of death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques, and that lends to Gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled with the malady of reverie.
Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn’t it?
And yet, what evidence was there against him?
Would there ever be some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry?
And by the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this humbug your father tells me about Dartmoor wanting to marry an American?
Why inquire too closely into it?
Had the portrait really changed?
You value beauty far too much.”

“How can you say that?
Had the lover of Giovanna of Naples bequeathed him some inheritance of sin and shame?
Do you think this girl will ever be really content now with any one of her own rank?
What of George Willoughby, with his powdered hair and fantastic patches?
What if Alan Campbell should be out of England?
My God, Harry, how I worship her!” He was walking up and down the room as he spoke.
How could I admire her?
Why not tell me what it is?
The whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when James is going away to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I must say that you should have shown more consideration.
Perhaps one never seems so much at one’s ease as when one has to play a part.
It is the secret of their charm.”

“Why can’t these American women stay in their own country?
What did it matter what happened to the coloured image on the canvas?
And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead themselves?
Now I want to know about the girl.”

“Sibyl?
When your youth goes, your beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly discover that there are no triumphs left for you, or have to content yourself with those mean triumphs that the memory of your past will make more bitter than defeats.
Had she cursed him, as she died?
What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood?
It was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to end.
Had he something of her temperament in him?
When she knew its unreality, she died, as Juliet might have died.
Ah, Dorian, how happy you are! What an exquisite life you have had! You have drunk deeply of everything.
When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o’clock, he saw a telegram lying on the hall table.
In politics he was a Tory, except when the Tories were in office, during which period he roundly abused them for being a pack of Radicals.
Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it?
When the clock struck six, he got up and went to the door.
Or was it indifferent to results?
And when winter came upon it, he would still be standing where spring trembles on the verge of summer.
When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and turned it in the lock.
And so when I got this offer from Paris, I determined to make your portrait the principal thing in my exhibition.
His sin?
When you are ill you shouldn’t act.
“Dorian!”

“Don’t speak!”

“But what is the matter?
And yet I see you very seldom, and you never come down to the studio now, and when I am away from you, and I hear all these hideous things that people are whispering about you, I don’t know what to say.
It was not that mere physical admiration of beauty that is born of the senses and that dies when the senses tire.
When they met in society now, it was only Dorian Gray who smiled: Alan Campbell never did.
Didn’t you recognize me?”

“In this fog, my dear Basil?
What about Lord Kent’s only son and his career?
Know you?
“How can you say that?
Or shall we lunch with our little duchess?
When he stepped out on to the grass, he drew a deep breath.
What was he doing there?
When they opened, the mist of a dream had passed across them.
How perfectly hideous they are! Except, of course, in the Church.
And you will promise to talk to me all the time?
“It is the real Dorian Gray—that is all.”

“It is not.”

“If it is not, what have I to do with it?”

“You should have gone away when I asked you,” he muttered.
This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™, including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
“At what particular point did you mention the word marriage, Dorian?
“Especially when one has been wounded by it,” answered Lord Henry.
Money?
Where was the great crocus-coloured robe, on which the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked by brown girls for the pleasure of Athena?
I must see him!” he exclaimed; but at that moment the Duke of Berwick’s four-in-hand came between, and when it had left the space clear, the carriage had swept out of the park.
We live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of autobiography.
When I find that I am growing old, I shall kill myself.”

Hallward turned pale and caught his hand.
“Something of a load to carry, sir,” gasped the little man when they reached the top landing.
Is that right?
“What do you want?
And yet if it had been merely an illusion, how terrible it was to think that conscience could raise such fearful phantoms, and give them visible form, and make them move before one! What sort of life would his be if, day and night, shadows of his crime were to peer at him from silent corners, to mock him from secret places, to whisper in his ear as he sat at the feast, to wake him with icy fingers as he lay asleep! As the thought crept through his brain, he grew pale with terror, and the air seemed to him to have become suddenly colder.
She consoled herself by telling Sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now that she had only one child to look after.
He had not entered the place for more than four years—not, indeed, since he had used it first as a play-room when he was a child, and then as a study when he grew somewhat older.
He only interested me once, and that was when he told me, years ago, that he had a wild adoration for you and that you were the dominant motive of his art.”

“I was very fond of Basil,” said Dorian with a note of sadness in his voice.
You didn’t see anything else in the picture, did you?
There were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of violins.
Yet, when her arms were flung round his neck, and her fingers strayed through his hair, he softened and kissed her with real affection.
Do you think, then, that a man who has once committed a murder could possibly do the same crime again?
Are they true?
Why have you pulled the screen in front of it?
Harry! if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me! You remember that landscape of mine, for which Agnew offered me such a huge price but which I would not part with?
Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not concern you.
I began to wonder what on earth I should do when I caught sight of the play-bill.
When you met Lady Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her.
Makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn’t it?
Besides, I don’t suppose you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a wooden doll?
What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane’s death?
When that high spirit, that morning star of evil, fell from heaven, it was as a rebel that he fell.
He thanked him, wondered why he refused to accept any money for them, and began to eat them listlessly.
And, yet, what did it matter?
Who had made him a judge over others?
There are moments when the odour of lilas blanc passes suddenly across me, and I have to live the strangest month of my life over again.
If thought could exercise its influence upon a living organism, might not thought exercise an influence upon dead and inorganic things?
“Can you move it, covering and all, just as it is?
What sort of life has he got now?
How shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! And yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools! Was the soul a shadow seated in the house of sin?
How ugly it all was! And how horribly real ugliness made things! He felt a little annoyed with Lord Henry for having sent him the report.
You are dining out, I suppose?
I know how people chatter in England.
You shrug your shoulders?
At least he would be alone when he looked upon the mask of his shame.
Oh! how I shall play it! Fancy, Jim, to be in love and play Juliet! To have him sitting there! To play for his delight! I am afraid I may frighten the company, frighten or enthrall them.
How pleasant it was in the garden! And how delightful other people’s emotions were!—much more delightful than their ideas, it seemed to him.
When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of infinite joy came over her.
When he caught sight of Lord Henry, a faint blush coloured his cheeks for a moment, and he started up.
When Lord Henry came in at six o’clock, he found him crying as one whose heart will break.
When Dorian had finished the letter, he felt that he had been forgiven.
Why had he kept it so long?
Was it not Gautier who used to write about la consolation des arts?
What is going on in town?
Who wants happiness?
It makes me shudder when I hear it.
How inquisitive you are, Harry! You always want to know what one has been doing.
When I leave town now I never tell my people where I am going.
When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner.
He had changed, too—was strangely melancholy at times, appeared almost to dislike hearing music, and would never himself play, giving as his excuse, when he was called upon, that he was so absorbed in science that he had no time left in which to practise.
Was the face on the canvas viler than before?
They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they have no account.”

“Harry,” cried Dorian Gray, coming over and sitting down beside him, “why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want to?
When one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one’s self, and one always ends by deceiving others.
I should fancy that crime was to them what art is to us, simply a method of procuring extraordinary sensations.”

“A method of procuring sensations?
When he thought of her, it would be as a wonderful tragic figure sent on to the world’s stage to show the supreme reality of love.
Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand now what it signifies?
How evil he looked! The face was saturnine and swarthy, and the sensual lips seemed to be twisted with disdain.
“Isn’t it, Mr. Gray?
You know how a voice can stir one.
He watched it with that strange interest in trivial things that we try to develop when things of high import make us afraid, or when we are stirred by some new emotion for which we cannot find expression, or when some thought that terrifies us lays sudden siege to the brain and calls on us to yield.
Tuesday?
You smile?
Young people, nowadays, imagine that money is everything.”

“Yes,” murmured Lord Henry, settling his button-hole in his coat; “and when they grow older they know it.
