Will it always be so?
Why had he not known it?
Surely his wish had not been fulfilled?
Why do you try to persuade our nice Mr. Dorian Gray to give up the East End?
What did it matter what happened to the coloured image on the canvas?
With such blood as he has in his veins, how could his record be clean?
What is it but canvas and colour?
Who is he?
Was there no hope for him?
Why should I not love her?
Were his own actions merely the dreams that the dead man had not dared to realize?
Where is it?
Where was the great crocus-coloured robe, on which the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked by brown girls for the pleasure of Athena?
Had she cursed him, as she died?
Have you any reason?
What sort of life has he got now?
Was it to become a monstrous and loathsome thing, to be hidden away in a locked room, to be shut out from the sunlight that had so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair?
“How long ago is it since your sister died?
Was it not Gautier who used to write about la consolation des arts?
“So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil?
How had she played that dreadful last scene?
You smile?
“My dear Basil! Surely you don’t think it was a vulgar accident?
Are you ill?
What of George Willoughby, with his powdered hair and fantastic patches?
Would it teach him to loathe his own soul?
Or had his choice already been made?
Even if he told them, would they believe it?
Why is it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs?
Why, they will hang me, Alan! Don’t you understand?
Is that very vain of me?
Did I teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery?
How can you say such horrible things?
On a yacht one is safe.”

“Safe from what, Dorian?
And so will you, Harry?
By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he did of you?
Or the desire for a new sensation, as Lord Henry had hinted, with his mocking laugh?
Was it not Plato, that artist in thought, who had first analyzed it?
It is the secret of their charm.”

“Why can’t these American women stay in their own country?
Poor?
Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane?
My God! My God! Harry, what shall I do?
“What do you want?
“Who is he?
Besides, was it really under his control?
Sin is the only real colour-element left in modern life.”

“You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry.”

“Before which Dorian?
Mere words! Was there anything so real as words?
“I never thought you would.”

“Appreciate it?
Did it mean that he was to confess?
“You won’t?
Why should it keep what I must lose?
“Mother, Mother,” she cried, “why does he love me so much?
“Why on earth don’t you keep your men back?
Do you think, then, that a man who has once committed a murder could possibly do the same crime again?
And, yet, what was there to be afraid of?
Would he ever look at it again?
Might there not be some curious scientific reason for it all?
Even those that are born in England become foreigners after a time, don’t they?
Did you go down and see the girl’s mother?
Had the lover of Giovanna of Naples bequeathed him some inheritance of sin and shame?
Tuesday?
If it was not true, why trouble about it?
Shall you see Basil between this and then?
Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it?
Why had it altered?
What could he do then?
Was it to alter now with every mood to which he yielded?
How should I know?
Do you think this girl will ever be really content now with any one of her own rank?
Why do you talk of it?
And Basil?
Or would you like hock-and-seltzer?
Or was that merely his own fancy?
“At what particular point did you mention the word marriage, Dorian?
Besides, what do you know of this young man?
They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they have no account.”

“Harry,” cried Dorian Gray, coming over and sitting down beside him, “why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want to?
How lovely that thing you are playing is! I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca, with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against the panes?
I have been right, Basil, haven’t I, to take my love out of poetry and to find my wife in Shakespeare’s plays?
Was it all true?
What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane’s death?
What about Lord Kent’s only son and his career?
And, besides, might not his nature grow finer, after all?
“Why not, Mother?
After a few moments he said to him, “Have you really a very bad influence, Lord Henry?
Why not?
“Dorian!”

“Don’t speak!”

“But what is the matter?
Why had he worn its livery?
You value beauty far too much.”

“How can you say that?
Or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things finer than we are ourselves?
Nay, without thought or conscious desire, might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods and passions, atom calling to atom in secret love or strange affinity?
Why do you ask?
Why not tell me what it is?
Harry! if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me! You remember that landscape of mine, for which Agnew offered me such a huge price but which I would not part with?
Why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul?
What had happened?
What could they know of love such as ours?
What was the use of knowing?
“Do you mean to say you don’t like what I did of you?
Cruelty! Had he been cruel?
You can talk to me of other women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in?
What was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked?
What if it should be stolen?
What if Alan Campbell should be out of England?
Why had such a soul been given to him?
And yet, what evidence was there against him?
And what is Ferrol like?
But what does he see in me?
But was it all irretrievable?
I wonder do I know you?
Is that right?
Would there ever be some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry?
Was it very bad?
A wonderful tragic figure?
‘A dream of form in days of thought’—who is it who says that?
It is a gentleman, isn’t it, who is in love with her, or says he is?
I suppose they don’t know your name at the theatre?
“Dorian,” said Lord Henry at last, as the chaud-froid was being handed round, “what is the matter with you to-night?
What can you expect?
What more can one want?
Did Sibyl—?
But who could tell?
Didn’t you get my letter?
“Why do you ask me?
Who wants happiness?
Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are—my art, whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray’s good looks—we shall all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly.”

“Dorian Gray?
What was he doing there?
Surely it was not still so horrible as it had been?
You remember Sibyl, don’t you?
The merely visible presence of this lad—for he seems to me little more than a lad, though he is really over twenty—his merely visible presence—ah! I wonder can you realize all that that means?
His sin?
Was he always to be burdened by his past?
Besides, even if he did confess, who would believe him?
What is it to me where she came from?
Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn’t it?
But who drove him to it?
You won’t?
Was it really true that one could never change?
Vanity?
How shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! And yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools! Was the soul a shadow seated in the house of sin?
Should he move it aside, after all?
Was the world going to be shown his secret?
What have you or I to do with the superstitions of our age?
Yet, after all, what did it matter to him?
What does that matter?
Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can’t you see what I am going through?
Why not let it stay there?
Ah! you don’t know what it cost me to tell you all that I have told you.”

“My dear Basil,” said Dorian, “what have you told me?
His own picture! What did it mean?
Can they be true?
“You will have tea, of course, Dorian?
It seems silly of the French, doesn’t it?
Had he something of her temperament in him?
There is nothing that you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do.”

“But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and old, and wrinkled?
What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood?
Don’t laugh.”

“Why have you stopped playing, Dorian?
What could atone for that?
Had it indeed been prayer that had produced the substitution?
Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead?
Was it true that the senses could cure it?
I should fancy that crime was to them what art is to us, simply a method of procuring extraordinary sensations.”

“A method of procuring sensations?
Did any one see you going round to her room?
I hate it.”

“Oh, Jim!” said Sibyl, laughing, “how unkind of you! But are you really going for a walk with me?
Why have you not told me about him?
You remember the one I wore at Lady Hilstone’s garden-party?
Or was there some other, more terrible reason?
What is marriage?
They all are, ain’t they?
Or was it indifferent to results?
Why shouldn’t you look at it?
Or was the body really in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought?
If Adrian Singleton writes his friend’s name across a bill, am I his keeper?
Was it not Buonarotti who had carved it in the coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence?
But who had done it?
And why is it so?
If Kent’s silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me?
Fitzherbert?
How long will you like me?
If we women did not love you for your defects, where would you all be?
Know you?
Was he really to confess?
What are you now?
And by the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this humbug your father tells me about Dartmoor wanting to marry an American?
Where the huge velarium that Nero had stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, that Titan sail of purple on which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot drawn by white, gilt-reined steeds?
Perhaps one should never put one’s worship into words.”

“It was a very disappointing confession.”

“Why, what did you expect, Dorian?
Had it been merely vanity that had made him do his one good deed?
Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen?
Oh, if it were only the other way! If the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint it?
“How can you say that?
Besides, I don’t suppose you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a wooden doll?
“Isn’t it, Mr. Gray?
How could I admire her?
Why did he get in front of the guns?
“Was the poor fellow married?
You never got it back?
But this murder—was it to dog him all his life?
Whom did she marry?
Is there a single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the park?
And, yet, what did it matter?
To give himself up and be put to death?
Curiosity?
“Your life?
He may not have intended it, the result was the same.”

“Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to?
What was he to say of that?
Who could say where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the psychical impulse began?
Had the portrait really changed?
In the present case, what is it that has really happened?
What about your country-house and the life that is led there?
What is past is past.”

“You call yesterday the past?”

“What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it?
What did it mean?
What did you do afterwards?
Indeed, what right had Basil to have spoken to him as he had done?
Is insincerity such a terrible thing?
And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead themselves?
What had this man’s legacy been?
And what did she say in answer?
“But why should you be annoyed?
What have I to do with the puppets of a play?
Where shall we go?
Here was Philip Herbert, described by Francis Osborne, in his Memoires on the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth and King James, as one who was “caressed by the Court for his handsome face, which kept him not long company.” Was it young Herbert’s life that he sometimes led?
“Who wouldn’t like it?
Have another brandy-and-soda?
“Where, sir?
“What do you mean?
You didn’t see anything else in the picture, did you?
Money?
Now I want to know about the girl.”

“Sibyl?
And you will promise to talk to me all the time?
“Can you move it, covering and all, just as it is?
Which is he?
You don’t imagine I let him arrange my room for me?
Hypocrisy?
And, yet, what a great reward one received! How wonderful the whole world became to one! To note the curious hard logic of passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect—to observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they were in unison, and at what point they were at discord—there was a delight in that! What matter what the cost was?
Did it merely take cognizance of what passed within the soul?
And yet, who, that knew anything about life, would surrender the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught?
Was that one of the things that life had in store?
You are dining out, I suppose?
How proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose! What passions had he bequeathed?
Who had made him a judge over others?
Did you advertise for it?
What was it separated you?
Finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, “Harry, did you say an inquest?
Could it be that what that soul thought, they realized?—that what it dreamed, they made true?
What about Adrian Singleton and his dreadful end?
And why was the red stain larger than it had been?
What about the young Duke of Perth?
“What is it that one was taught to say in one’s boyhood?
If one hears bad music, it is one’s duty to drown it in conversation.”

“Ah! that is one of Harry’s views, isn’t it, Mr. Gray?
I wrote to you this morning, and sent the note down by my own man.”

“Your letter?
Why inquire too closely into it?
What was she like?
Why had he been made like that?
What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own picture?
Why had it been left for a stranger to reveal him to himself?
“Money, Mother?” she cried, “what does money matter?
Are they true?
Or shall we lunch with our little duchess?
My dear fellow, why?
Do you think I am going to peril my reputation for you?
What is going on in town?
Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand now what it signifies?
Or had it been simply his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there had been a look of joy?
What does it matter?
Had some strange poisonous germ crept from body to body till it had reached his own?
Perhaps you are tired of Gladys?
Had it hit the mark?
Confess?
You shrug your shoulders?
“Mr. Dorian Gray?
What did you mean by that?
It was horrible! Why is your friendship so fatal to young men?
Makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn’t it?
“Why have you changed your mind?
Was it some dim sense of that ruined grace that had made him so suddenly, and almost without cause, give utterance, in Basil Hallward’s studio, to the mad prayer that had so changed his life?
Didn’t you recognize me?”

“In this fog, my dear Basil?
But what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, eyes other than his spied behind and saw the horrible change?
But where were you?
It was true that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn from that?
Or, perhaps, all these?
“Not send it anywhere?
Had there been nothing more in his renunciation than that?
Why have you pulled the screen in front of it?
After all, what right had he to pry into the life of Dorian Gray?
But you, oh! can’t you forgive me for to-night?
Why should he have been murdered?
What did it matter?
You don’t really mind, Basil, do you?
“What is it?
How different it was with material things! Where had they passed to?
“You went to the opera while Sibyl Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging?
If thought could exercise its influence upon a living organism, might not thought exercise an influence upon dead and inorganic things?
“Will you have some coffee, you fellows?
Was the face on the canvas viler than before?
Surely a painted canvas could not alter?
So she left a son, did she?
You have never been to any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray?
“Ten minutes past two?
What was youth at best?
Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian?
How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror?
Why had he kept it so long?
What sort of boy is he?
The light was too strong on the portrait.”

“Too strong! Surely not, my dear fellow?
“Well, Harry,” said the old gentleman, “what brings you out so early?
Was there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves into form and colour on the canvas and the soul that was within him?
But the picture?
Were people to gape at the mystery of his life?
